Welcome to our update.
How did the 2023 annual meeting affect you?
Remember the information that highlighted Jehovah
as the merciful judge of all the earth?
We were thrilled to learn that individuals who died
in the flood of Noah's day,
in the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah,
and even some who might repent during the great tribulation,
could benefit from Jehovah's mercy.
Since hearing that information,
have you found yourself thinking a lot about Jehovah's mercy?
Well, so has the governing body.
In our prayerful study, meditation, and discussions,
we've focused our attention on how Jehovah has dealt
with people who engaged in serious sin.
In this update, we'll briefly consider
the pattern Jehovah set in the Bible record.
Then we'll discuss some new information
regarding the way we'll handle cases of wrongdoing
in the Christian congregation.
Second Peter 3, verse 9,
tells us that Jehovah does not desire anyone to be destroyed,
but desires all to attain to repentance.
What does that teach us?
It helps us understand that Jehovah wants people
to repent and gain life.
When the first human couple rebelled,
they condemned the human race to sin and death.
What did Jehovah do?
He took immediate steps to help as many
of their descendants as possible to gain life.
Through the sacrifice of Jesus,
Jehovah arranged to cover the sins
of all who would exercise faith and repent.
Such ones can live forever.
So it's not surprising that throughout the Bible record,
we find Jehovah appealing to sinners to repent.
He urges those who had strayed from true worship
to return.
This is in harmony with Romans 2, verse 4, which says,
or do you despise the riches of his kindness
and forbearance and patience
because you do not know that God in his kindness
is trying to lead you to repentance?
Consider some examples in which we see
Jehovah trying to lead sinners to repentance.
Cain showed murderous hatred for his brother Abel,
but Jehovah reached out to Cain
and tried to reason with him.
When David sinned,
Jehovah used the prophet Nathan
to lead David to repentance.
And what about the nation of Israel?
Jehovah kept appealing to them,
even when they showed no desire to repent.
At Ezekiel 33 11,
Jehovah appeals to the nation of Israel
as surely as I am alive.
I take no pleasure in the death of the wicked,
but rather that someone wicked changes his way
and keeps living.
Turn back, turn back from your bad ways
for why should you die, O house of Israel?
What does this teach us?
That while Jehovah doesn't force anyone
to repent of his sins,
he has demonstrated great compassion for imperfect humans.
He's gone to great lengths to make forgiveness possible,
to appeal to sinners
and to lead them to repentance if at all possible.
What a compassionate and merciful God we worship.
The governing body has prayerfully considered
how Jehovah's mercy could be better reflected
when dealing with wrongdoers in the congregation.
And that's led to a clearer understanding
of three scriptures.
Let's consider the first.
It's 2 Timothy 2 verses 24 and 25.
Their Paul said,
for a slave of the Lord does not need to fight,
but needs to be gentle toward all,
qualified to teach, showing restraint when wronged,
instructing with mildness, those not favorably disposed.
Perhaps God may give them repentance
leading to an accurate knowledge of truth.
To whom was Paul referring when he mentioned
those not favorably disposed?
A study note on 2 Timothy 2, 25, explains.
Paul uses a Greek word that in this context
refers to people who resist Christian teachings
or who place themselves in opposition to them.
Paul may have had in mind, among others,
those in the congregation in Ephesus
who had a negative attitude
toward following scriptural counsel
or heeding admonition from brothers taking the lead.
Today, this could include brothers and sisters
in the congregation who disregard scriptural counsel
and become involved in serious wrongdoing.
Someone who gets involved in serious wrongdoing
needs help from the elders.
So a committee of elders meets with the wrongdoer.
The goal of these elders isn't merely to judge
whether the wrongdoer is repentant,
but also to act in harmony with 2 Timothy 2, 24 and 25.
The elders must correct and instruct the wrongdoer
with mildness.
What is their goal?
Notice what another study note on 2 Timothy 2, 25 says.
When a Christian elder mildly corrects
or instructs those not favorably disposed,
the good result may be repentance or a change of mind.
The credit for such a change in thinking and attitude
goes not to any human, but to Jehovah
who helps the wayward Christian make this vital change.
Paul goes on to mention some of the beautiful results
of such repentance.
It leads the sinner to a more accurate knowledge
of the truth.
It helps him come back to his proper senses
and it enables him to escape from Satan's snares.
So the elders have the goal of leading the wrongdoer
to repentance.
How does a clearer understanding of 2 Timothy 2, 24 and 25
adjust our current arrangement?
Presently, a committee of elders
normally meets with a wrongdoer only one time.
However, the governing body has decided
that the committee may decide to meet with the person
more than once.
Why?
At Revelation 2, 21, regarding that woman Jezebel,
Jesus said, I gave her time to repent.
We hope that through the loving efforts of the elders,
Jehovah will help a wayward Christian
to come back to his proper senses and repent.
If he repents, the committee will provide shepherding
so that the person can escape from Satan's snares
and keep making straight paths for his feet.
This arrangement reflects the same effort
that Jehovah personally made to help David
and the nation of Israel to repent.
What about baptized miners,
those under 18 years of age,
who engage in serious wrongdoing?
Under our current arrangement,
such a baptized miner, along with his Christian parents,
must meet with a committee of elders.
Under our new arrangement, two elders will meet
with the miner and his Christian parents.
The elders will find out what steps the parents
have already taken to help their child come to repentance.
If the miner has a good attitude and the parents
are reaching him, the two elders might decide
that it isn't necessary to take the matter any further.
Of course, the elders will occasionally check
with the parents to make sure that the miner
is getting the help he needs.
However, what if a baptized miner
unrepentantly persists in a wrong course?
In that case, a committee of elders would meet with him
along with his Christian parents.
The governing body is confident that these adjustments
reflect Jehovah's desire to lead sinners to repentance.
He wants them to come to their senses
and escape from the snare of the devil.
He does not desire anyone to be destroyed,
but he desires all to attain to repentance.
Let's move on to our second scripture.
It's 1 Corinthians 5, 13, which says,
remove the wicked person from among yourselves.
The Bible clearly teaches that an unrepentant wrongdoer
should be removed from the congregation.
And really, it's a consequence that the wrongdoer
has chosen.
Why so?
Because he refuses to respond to repeated loving attempts
by the elders to lead him to repentance.
Even when the elders inform a person
that he's being removed from the congregation,
he won't be left hopeless.
The committee will not simply explain what steps he can take
to be welcome back into the congregation.
What else will they do?
The elders will explain that they'd like to meet
with the individual again after a few months
to see if he's had a change of heart.
If the individual is willing to meet,
the elders will make a warm appeal
for him to repent and return.
What about individuals who were disfellowshipped in the past?
Perhaps even many years ago?
In some cases, they may not even recall the reason
they were disfellowshipped.
They may have abandoned their wrong course years ago.
The governing body has decided that the elders
should visit such ones, pray with them,
and make a warm appeal for them to return to the congregation.
If a person's been away from the congregation
for many years, he would no doubt be very weak spiritually.
Therefore, if such a person is willing,
the elders could arrange for him to have a Bible study
even before he's reinstated.
Of course, the individual would have to want to return
to the congregation, and the elders would always be
the ones to arrange for such a study.
In imitation of Jehovah's mercy toward imperfect sinners,
we want to reach out and help as many as possible
to know that the door is open for them
to come back to the congregation.
If you are a disfellowshipped person listening to this update,
we urge you to accept the efforts of the elders
to help you return to the congregation.
If you're living in an area where you don't know
the local elders, please feel free to call
or visit the local kingdom hall
and request spiritual assistance.
Jehovah wants you to come home and we do too.
In keeping with the scriptural admonition
at 1 Corinthians 5-11,
when a person has been removed from the congregation,
we stop keeping company with that person,
not even eating with such a man.
That means we don't socialize
with those who are removed from the congregation.
However, that does not mean that a Christian
could not invite a disfellowshipped person
to attend a congregation meeting.
That disfellowshipped person could be a relative
a former Bible student or someone we were close to in the past.
How appropriate this adjustment is at this time
as we're preparing for the most important meeting of the year,
the memorial, which will be held on Sunday, March 24th.
What if a disfellowshipped person
comes to a congregation meeting?
Under our current arrangement,
we don't say a greeting to individuals
who've been removed from the congregation.
However, the governing body has decided
that publishers can use their Bible-trained conscience
to decide whether to give a simple greeting
and welcome a disfellowshipped individual
who attends a congregation meeting.
Hi, so good to see you here.
Thank you.
While we wouldn't have an extended conversation
or socialize with such a person,
we do not need to ignore him completely.
That brings us to our third scripture.
It's 2 John 9-11.
There we read.
Everyone who pushes ahead
and does not remain in the teaching of the Christ
does not have God.
The one who does remain in this teaching
is the one who has both the Father and the Son.
If anyone comes to you and does not bring this teaching,
do not receive him into your homes
or say a greeting to him.
For the one who says a greeting to him
is a shareer in his wicked works.
But doesn't 2 John 9-11 tell us not to say a greeting
to anyone who's been removed from the congregation?
In examining the context of those verses,
the governing body has concluded
that the Apostle John was really describing apostates
and others who actively promote wrong conduct.
For good reason,
John strongly directed Christians
not even to greet such a person
because of his contaminating influence.
Therefore, if a disfellowship individual
is a known apostate
or someone who actively promotes wrongdoing,
the elders would not visit him,
neither would individual Christians greet such a person
or invite him to attend a congregation meeting.
In this update,
we've examined Jehovah's desire
to lead sinners to repentance,
and we received clarification on three scriptures
that relate to how wrongdoers should be dealt with.
In Harmony with 2 Timothy 2, 24 and 25,
a committee of elders will lovingly correct
and instruct a wrongdoer
with the goal of leading him to repentance.
As outlined at 1 Corinthians 513,
a person who refuses to repent
must be removed from the congregation.
However, the committee will still try
to help him see the need to repent and return
and will arrange for a follow-up meeting in a few months.
We also clarified our understanding
of 2 John 9 to 11,
which we learned applies specifically to apostates
and others who actively promote wrong conduct,
not to all those who have been removed from the congregation.
Ever since the first human couple sinned,
Jehovah has been working to rescue repentant humans.
Of course, Jehovah isn't permissive
and he doesn't shield unrepentant wrongdoers
from the consequences of their actions.
Still, in his love,
Jehovah wants sinners to become reconciled to him
if at all possible.
He doesn't want anyone to be destroyed,
so he appeals to them to repent.
Elders are privileged to be fellow workers with Jehovah
as they work to help sinners come to repentance.
Our love for Jehovah continues to deepen
as we meditate on his love, mercy and compassion.
We know you'll be happy to hear
that the information contained in this update
will be published in a series of articles
that will appear in the study edition of the Watchtower.
In addition, the elders will receive direction
on how to apply this information.
May Jehovah bless us as we work to implement these arrangements
that reflect his love and mercy.
Before we conclude, the governing body
has asked me to read the following announcement.
The governing body has decided
that sisters may choose to wear slacks
when participating in the ministry
and when attending Christian meetings,
assemblies and conventions.
If a sister chooses to wear slacks on such occasions,
they should not be casual but dignified, modest and appropriate.
When a sister has a part on the program,
she should wear a skirt or a dress
if that is the standard of dress in that land.
Of course, some sisters may choose to wear a skirt or a dress
even when they do not have a part on the program.
In addition, brothers may choose not to wear a tie
or a jacket when participating in the ministry
and when attending Christian meetings, assemblies and conventions.
If a brother chooses not to wear a tie
or a jacket on such occasions,
he should dress in a manner that is appropriate, modest
and dignified, not casual.
When a brother has a part on the program,
he should wear a tie and a jacket
if that is the standard of dress in that land.
Of course, some brothers may choose to wear a tie or a jacket
even when they do not have a part on the program.
When visiting Bethel, it would be appropriate for brothers
to wear a tie and a jacket
and for sisters to wear a skirt or a dress
if that is the standard of dress in that land.
We love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting.